#summary Operation tools and best practice.

= JAKOB Operations =
This document describes some of the standard operation items.

== Tools ==
JAKOB comes with some simple maintenance tools, all located in the `bin` directory located under `JAKOB`.

=== connector-worker.php ===
Script for running a connector. The script will handle `SIGTERM`to the connector and shut down the conector nicely if possible. The script also writes a pid file in the directory supplied in the main config file under `pid.directory`. The pid file can be used with the [[http://www.unix.com/man-page/Linux/8/start-stop-daemon/ Unix start-stop-daemon]] for easy control over the connector.

The script should be called with a connector configuration file as its first and only argument. Below is an example on how to call the script.

Ex.
{{{
nohup php ./bin/connector-worker.php connector_cpr.php 1> ./log/nohup.out 2> ./log/nohup.error &
}}}

=== jakob-workers.php ===
The script will start connectors for all configuration files located in the `./config/connectors/` directory. The script uses the connector-worker.php script for running the individual connectors.

=== restart-workers.sh ===
This script will stop all running connectors and start connectors for all configuration files located in the `./config/connectors/` directory. The script uses the jakob-workers.php for starting the actual connectors.

----

== Find running connectors ==
Find all workers (conectors) running
{{{
$ pgrep -f connector-worker.php
}}}

== Stop all running connectors ==
Kill all running workers
{{{
$ pkill -f connector-worker.php
}}}
If one or more connector are not stopping use
{{{
$ pkill -9 -f connector-worker.php
}}}

== See the running workers ==
See running workers
{{{
$ nc localhost 4730
- status
- workers
}}}