#summary User stories for JAKOB

Here you can see all the different user stories created for JAKOB. If you would like to create additional user stories, please read the "[UserStories#How_to_create_user_stories How to create user stories]" section first.
=User stories=

  * As a *User* I want to collect attributes from different sources so that I can pass on more attributes to a service.
  * As an *Administrator* I want to easily set up a new attribute collection so that I do not have to code.
  * As an *Administrator* I want to easily change the configuration of an attribute collection to accomodate for changes in an external data source.
  * As a *User* I want to have JAKOB collect attributes about me with out my interference so that they can be delivered to WAYF.
  * As an *Administrator* I want to have easy access to JAKOB so that I do not have to remember a password
  * As a *Developer* I want to have a clean interface for developing new connectors so that development is easy and fast.
  * As an *Attributestore* I want to bill a *Service* for releasing attributes.

=User roles=

|| *User roles* ||
|| User ||
|| Administrator ||
|| Developer ||
|| Attributestore ||
|| Service ||
=How to create user stories=

All user tories should be on the form:

_As a *`[`user role`]`* I want to *`[`goal`]`* so that *`[`benefit`]`*

Please set the user role in bold and capitalise it.

Keep the user stories as short as possible.

If you introduce a new user role please ad it to the "[UserStories#User_roles User roles]" section.